Add proposal (#1)
sota-zk-labs/soulforge: applications/zk_sealed_bid_auction.md

> 

Reviewer: .

Author: why just a dot ?

#  SilentBid - Bringing Sealed-Bid Auction On-chain

> 

Reviewer: .

## [Section 1] Project Information

-  **Project Name:** SilentBid - On-chain sealed-bid highest auction

> 

Reviewer: .

-  **Payment Details:** 0x9efE53369D4894Ca22C63f489023B324C3D519BA (on Polygon Network)

> 

Reviewer: .

-  **Total Amount Requested:** 10,000 USDC

## [Section 2] Project Overview :page_facing_up:

> 
>   
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

-  **Brief Description:**

> This project is a **Sealed-Bid Auction** platform built on **zkVM**, leveraging the **Plonky3** toolkit. Its primary goal is to enable secure and private auctions using **zero-knowledge proofs (ZKPs)** to select the winning bidder without revealing the individual bid amounts, while ensuring fairness in determining the highest bid.

Reviewer: zkVM ?

> What excites us about this project is **its application of zero-knowledge techniques** to address real-world challenges where privacy, transparency, and security are paramount. The platform ensures bid confidentiality, making it suitable for auctions where the bid amounts need to remain private but not necessarily the bidders' identities. This is especially relevant for auctions such as high-value asset sales or certain corporate procurement processes, where protecting the bid amount while maintaining transparency of participants still ensures a fair and secure auction process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Beyond its practical use, this project also serves as a **reference model** for developers interested in building ZK-based decentralized applications using **Plonky3**. It demonstrates how zero-knowledge technology can enhance privacy in bidding scenarios and lays a foundation for future projects in the ZK space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond its practical use, this project also serves as a **reference model** for developers interested in building full-fledged ZK-based decentralized applications using **Plonky3**.
```

-  **Core Idea:**

The primary goal of this project is to build a **Sealed-Bid Auction** platform that ensures complete privacy and fairness in selecting the winning bidder. The key innovation is the use of **zero-knowledge proofs (ZKPs)** to validate bids without disclosing any information about the bid amounts. The auction logic—such as bid encryption, winner determination, and proof generation—is executed off-chain, while the bidding, verification, and auction settlement processes are managed on-chain via the smart contract.

Key components of our project include:

- **Proving Service**: Powered by **Plonky3**, this service generates a **zero-knowledge proof** from the **execution trace** of a program that decrypts the encrypted bids and computes the winner, without disclosing the bid amounts.

- **SmartContract**: This contract is responsible for verifying the ZK proof, as well as managing the entire auction lifecycle, including setup, bidding, and settlement.

> This architecture ensures that bidders maintain full privacy while the smart contract verifies the proof generated by the proving service. The solution is designed to scale efficiently, ensuring that even with a high number of participants, the privacy of each bid amount is preserved, and the auction remains **transparent** and **fair**. Beyond addressing the practical application of zero-knowledge proofs in sealed-bid auctions, this project serves as a **reference model** for developers seeking to explore **ZK-based decentralized applications using Plonky3**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

  

-  **Technology Stack:**

> **SilentBid** utilizes a diverse technology stack to build a secure and efficient sealed-bid auction platform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - Smart Contract: Solidity
> - Proving Service: Rust, Plonky3.
> - Layer 2 Chain: Polygon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Smart Contract: Solidity
      - Proving Service: Rust, Plonky3.
      - Layer 2 Chain: Polygon.
```

> - Layer 2 Chain: Polygon.

Reviewer: - Layer 2 Chain: Polygon.?

  

-  **Design Mockups/Prototypes (Optional):**

The core logic of **SilentBid** operates on-chain, while the processes of calculating the winner and generating the proof occur off-chain. The project follows a structured flow with four main phases:

- **Initial setup**: The auction owner creates the auction, sets the required deposit amount, transfers assets to the smart contract, and defines the block time for the **Bid Phase**.
- **Bid phase**: During this phase, bidders can deposit the required amount and submit their bids to the smart contract.
- **Open phase**: Once the bid submission window closes, the auction owner calls the **proving service** to compute the winner and generate the zero-knowledge proof.
- **Verify phase**: The owner submits both the winner and the proof to the smart contract for verification, at which point the auction is settled.

**Below are the sequence diagrams of each module:**

Auction flow:

![auction_flow](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/VanhGer/soulforge/refs/heads/vjp/auction_flow.png)

Prover & Verifier flow:

![prover_verifier_flow](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/VanhGer/soulforge/refs/heads/vjp/prover_verifier_flow.png)

> Here is the pseudo code of the proving service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the pseudo code of the circuit:
```
